Add v4-subgraph-example guide. Rename and format subgraph-example. Update external links to thegraph explorer and v3-subgraph GitHub (#965)
Uniswap/docs: docs/api/subgraph/guides/v4-subgraph-example.md

---
id: v4-examples
title: v4 Protocol Query Examples
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Subgraph Query Examples

> This doc will teach you how to query Uniswap v4 analytics by writing GraphQL queries on the subgraph. You can fetch data points like :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This doc will teach you how to query Uniswap v4 analytics by writing GraphQL queries on the subgraph. You can fetch data points like:
```

- [position details](#general-position-data)
- [current liquidity](#pool-data) of a pool
- [volume on a certain day](#historical-global-data)

and much more. Below are some example queries. To run a query copy and paste it into the [v4 explorer](https://thegraph.com/explorer/subgraphs/DiYPVdygkfjDWhbxGSqAQxwBKmfKnkWQojqeM2rkLb3G?view=Query&chain=arbitrum-one) to get fresh data.

## Global Data

Global data refers to data points about the Uniswap v4 protocol as a whole. Some examples of global data points are:
- Total value locked in the protocol,
- Total pools deployed,
- Total transaction counts. 

> Thus, to query global data you must pass in the PoolManager address `0x000000000004444c5dc75cb358380d2e3de08a90` and select the desired fields. Reference the full [poolManager schema](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-subgraph/blob/main/schema.graphql#L1) to see all possible fields.

Reviewer: lets also link to our `/deployments` page here for other PoolManager addresses?

Author: Do we need those deployments in the API section as it only refers to the mainnet subgraphs?

> Thus, to query global data you must pass in the PoolManager address `0x000000000004444c5dc75cb358380d2e3de08a90` and select the desired fields. Reference the full [poolManager schema](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-subgraph/blob/main/schema.graphql#L1) to see all possible fields. PoolManager addresses for all supported chains are listed in the [Deployments](https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v4/deployments) section.

Reviewer: better to not include the domain

```suggestion
Thus, to query global data you must pass in the PoolManager address `0x000000000004444c5dc75cb358380d2e3de08a90` and select the desired fields. Reference the full [poolManager schema](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-subgraph/blob/main/schema.graphql#L1) to see all possible fields. PoolManager addresses for all supported chains are listed in the [Deployments](/contracts/v4/deployments) section.
```

    id
    token0 {
      id
      symbol
    }
    token1 {
      id
      symbol
    }
  }
}
```

### Creating a Skip Variable

This next query sets a skip variable. In your language and environment of choice you can then iterate through a loop, query to get 1000 pools each time, and continually adjust skip by 1000 until all pool responses are returned.

Check out [this example](https://github.com/Uniswap/v3-info/blob/770a05dc1a191cf229432ebc43c1f2ceb3666e3b/src/data/pools/chartData.ts#L14) from our interface for poolDayData that does something similar.

> **Note**
> This query will not work in the graph explorer and more resembles the structure of a query you'd pass to some GraphQL middleware like Apollo.

```
query pools($skip: Int!) {
  pools(
    first: 1000
    skip: $skip
    orderDirection: asc
  ) {
    id
    sqrtPrice
    token0 {
      id
    }
    token1 {
      id
    }
  }
}
```

### Most Liquid Pools

Retrieve the top 1000 most liquid pools. You can use this similar set up to orderBy other variables like number of swaps or volume.

```
{
  pools(
    first: 1000, 
    orderBy: liquidity, 
    orderDirection: desc
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

### Pool Daily Aggregated

> This query returns daily aggregated data for the first 10 days since the given timestamp for the UNI-ETH pool.

Reviewer: can we add a note (or link to technical reference) on how to calculate PoolId -- `keccak256(poolKey)`

Author: Is a reference to https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v4/guides/state-view#note-on-poolid-and-positionid sufficient?

> This query returns daily aggregated data for the first 10 days since the given timestamp for the UNI-ETH pool. To calculate `poolId`, refer to [Note on poolId and positionId](https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v4/guides/state-view#note-on-poolid-and-positionid).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This query returns daily aggregated data for the first 10 days since the given timestamp for the UNI-ETH pool. To calculate `poolId`, refer to [PoolId Library](/contracts/v4/reference/core/types/PoolId#toid).
```
